all right so a lot of smart phones came
out in 2019 some of them were awesome
some of them were less so but I wanted
to do a video that focused on what I
felt were the most important phones that
came out this year so not like the best
features not my personal favorites but
phones that I think were important and
influential in the market space both for
this year as well as going forward so
the first phone I want to talk about is
the Samsung Galaxy fold this was a phone
that launched in the spring of 2019 and
it was a device that drew a lot of
attention to the folding screen
technology it was the world's first kind
of brand-name phone that had a screen
that could be bent in half and even
people that weren't interested in phones
at all were interested in the Galaxy
fold because it did something new it did
something that was so refreshing and
different in the smartphone market but
the launch was rough there were issues
with the screen and there were issues
with the hinge in terms of his
durability and it felt like they
launched this product a little bit too
early as if they rushed this product to
market to try to beat competitors and
because of that rougher launch it feels
like it poisoned or tainted the idea of
what folding phones were all about
because for a lot of people that initial
impression was not great but it turns
out months later once they'd fixed it
and once they tweaked it this phone is
very good for a first gen foldable and
people are clearly interested in this
product people are interested in folding
screens and it's largely in part to this
phone ok the second kind of important
and influential phone I'd say this year
was the Samsung Galaxy Note 10
was the first Samsung flagship to get
rid of the headphone jack now Samsung
released a lot of phones this year and
they showcased their new hole-punched
OLED screens which were really cool in
their own right but the removal of the
headphone jack on the note 10 was in my
opinion the most important and most
influential thing that they did this
year by removing it from the note as
well as the upcoming s 11 next year I
really feel like it marked the end of
the headphone jack the only way to get
Jack's at this point is to go with
brands that are less popular or with mid
tier phones it's like that's it
headphone jack is done okay now to me
the most important phone from this year
was actually the pixel 3a this was a
device that
launched at $400 and they designed this
phone to be different from every other
smartphone at the four hundred dollar
price point because these guys focus on
having a good camera like a really good
camera while still being a very
affordable $400 phone so all the other
things like the specs and the build
materials and like all the stuff that
really doesn't matter too much to the
end-user they skimped on it but they
focused on having a really good camera
and a really good price and that feature
of a great price with a great camera was
something that no one else did before
and because of this because of the
existence of the pixel 3a they saw a big
jump in their US sales figures something
that none of the pixel devices had been
able to do before and so I think Google
realized the importance of pricing when
it came to the pixel brand and then they
launched the pixel for a device that I'm
assuming isn't going to sell nearly as
well as they had hoped or had
anticipated and I think the combination
of these two phones like a super
expensive phone that just didn't move as
well as they would hope and then a cheap
phone that just sold like gangbusters I
think Google learns from this I think
Google sees this and says people really
care about things that actually matter
and I think next year only see the pixel
for a in the pixel five I think the
pricing and kind of effects of the pixel
3/8 are gonna play into that quite
nicely and I think this phone also
affected the pricing on this phone the
iPhone 11 they priced this phone at
$6.99 which was $50 cheaper than than
what they launched the previous
generation of this phone it is so unlike
Apple so uncharacteristic of Apple to
drop the price of anything let alone one
of their best selling products so I
think they did this because of market
pressure because if companies like pixel
making phones like the pixel 3a which
were really really well valued at $400
and then it affects stuff like that so
to me pixel 3a one of like one of the
best phones that you could get for 400
bucks but beyond that just super
influential and super important in our
industry because we are surrounded by so
many super expensive smartphones and to
have an option like this I think this
plants the seed in our industry of like
this is a stuff people want cheap phones
with one or two features that are really
fortunes that people actually care about
and this guy led the charge okay
these are the phones that I think are
most important from 2019 what do you
think do you agree do you disagree are
there other phones that you think are
kind of more influential than these ones
let me know hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]